---
title: Running Docker images 24/7 on GCP for $3/month (using Konlet & Pulumi)
author: hbanken
type: post
date: 2022-02-14T12:00:00+01:00
url: /2022/02/14/konlet/
categories:
  - cloudnative
  - gcp
  - docker

---

Sometimes your hobby project needs to run something continuouly, even in this 'serverless-era'. In most
situations you could get away with CronJobs (Google Cloud Scheduler) and static hosting & serverless functions,
but not always. For example, if you consume an API that is only available over WebSockets, like when
building a chat bot for example.

These applications often sit idle most of the time. They simply leave the connection running, "awaking"
only when a message comes in. If there is computationally expensive processing involved for each message
you could easily offload this to a high powered serverless function.

Most people would now consider renting a VPS or VM with Linode, DigitalOcean or some other company. Their
cheapest offers are often around $60/year (5$/month) which is just a tad too much for my hobby projects.

There is however, a very cheap alternative on GCP: using ["preemptible"](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/preemptible) 
or ["spot"](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/spot#pricing) machines that live
temporarily and are replaced (at most once a day) irregularly. The savings with respect to
regular e2-machines is around 60-91%, for a total cost of around 3$/month.

The only downside is that 1) you need to deal with GCP VM's, which are not simple Docker images,
and 2) need a Managed Instance Group with an Instance Template so that a new instance can be 
created if the old one is removed by Google. The first problem can be solved by using
[Konlet](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/konlet) and the second problem by using a few cli
commands.

```bash
export DOCKER_IMAGE=gcr.io/cloud-marketplace/google/nginx1:15

# Single instance
gcloud compute instances create-with-container VM_NAME \
    --container-image $DOCKER_IMAGE

# or with a MIG (https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/containers/deploying-containers#managedinstancegroupcontainer) template
gcloud compute instance-templates create-with-container nginx-template \
    --container-image $DOCKER_IMAGE
gcloud compute instance-groups managed create example-group \
    --base-instance-name nginx-vm --size 1 --template nginx-template
```

The last hurdle is that it is not convenient to **update** this Instance Template when you
publish a new Docker image. That is where my [konlet-pulumi](https://github.com/hermanbanken/konlet-pulumi)
project comes in. Simply copy that repo (and Star it thank you) into your project to hit the road running:
by running `pulumi up` you can now instantly deploy a new version of your cheap Dockerized GCP VM.
